

The recent breakup was a blessing for me. 

People say that you get to find yourself and learn about yourself as you go through dating and relationships. To be honest, I did not buy it that much. As I believed I have done lots of self-searching introspection, I've been confident about my identity, aware of my good and bad sides, and clear about my likes and dislikes. I thought what I needed in a world of relationships is to find a person who would love me as I am. 

Yet, everything in life gives you some lesson. And the recent breakup made me think a lot about my desires, anxieties, expectation, and standards. 

Until last year, I always started relationship only if I liked someone so much. But as those had turned out not that great, I decided to give up my judgement on who to like. I thought, 'okay i need to meet someone who would truly appreciate my values and like me even if I don't put much effort to look nicer before him.'

But life is never this or that. Most of the time, it's the balance we ought to find between A and B. I made a mistake of not listening to myself. I knew I did not have feelings left for him. But I just went for it because I wanted someone next to me and I low-key needed someone to like me more than I like him back. Unfortunately, that desire was derived from my previous breakup trauma. 

Well, not every couple starts off with same level of love. But now I think of it, I liked it more as a friendship, not love. I thought I needed a bit more time to open my heart to like him as a guy. If I try, it will work out, just like everything else in your life. But no, I couldn't try liking someone, especially when I was already turned off by him a year ago. I underestimated the importance of natural chemistry. 

Why is that so important? I realized my behaviors were so different from how I treated my other exes that I truly liked or even loved. When you like someone deeply, you are not too anxious about the future. I mean, there could be some natural anxiety of 'what if' scenarios. But you rather get to focus on 'now' and try to enjoy this moment. Whatever happens will happen, but I cannot relive this happiness again, so I naturally focused back to the present. 

When you love someone, even though they have some disadvantages or lacks, you do not judge them too much. You try to be a complement for them. (But you cannot change a person so easily, so do not fall for person whom you need to change so much, especially avoid a person with bad lifestyle or habits - it's a waste of your time trying to be his/her savior). But when I started not liking my exes anymore, I got to judge them after seeing their repetitive (bad, not healthy, not careful) behaviors. While worrying for them, I also happened to think, 'omg do I have to put up with this shit? Is he really gonna be a good material for a long-term relationship? what if I have to take care of him so much more than this?' When such thought came up to my mind, I immediately felt so guilty. I felt like I was such a horrible and selfish person. 'Wow, did I get old enough to be critical about choosing a good partner? or am I being such an asshole?' I was confused and apologized to my exes for nagging/being mad at them (even though that was for their sake, wtf.)

Of course I'm not saying you should be blind-sighted by love and accept whatever shit they do. I learned two things from here. First, if I truly loved them, I would have phrased my words better and sounded less condemning when pointing out their faults. Second, I need a clear standard of what I can accept and what I expect my partner to compromise for me. If I get swayed by emotion and tend to yield more and more for him, under the name of fucking 'love', I won't be happy after all. 

Going through relationship and revealing my bad sides, low moments, weakness are painful. Because you don't know if this person can handle these, if this person's heart is big enough to love you wholeheartedly. It's like a gamble. You get to and have to show yourself more and more without knowing the outcome. 

What I concluded for myself is taking lots of time before starting an actual relationship. I realized that I'm the type of person who get to show a lot about myself once I start relationship. maybe little too early and too much. Horoscope says scorpio is very hideous and confidential even to their partners, but I'm bit different. Once I invite someone into my inner boundaries, I tend to be so honest. I just say what I think without much filter (which is not always a good choice). My reason is that I need to explain myself to let this person truly understand me, instead of judging me. 